Hello I'll go back to the course on location.
Today we're talking about age do you WALLACE Or are we going to pronounce Strieber announces hierarchically
deterministic Wallach's.
That's what we're talking about today.
Let's have a look.
So here we've got a whole set up of private key public key message signature reification of and address.
And so we're know how this works won't go through that again.
But the question here is about privacy.
That's what we're going to address today.
So we know that Bitcoin and fluxions in general are meant to be or cryptocurrency is meant to be anonymous
or not exactly anonymous synonymous.
So like side by side on amisse.
So as long as nobody knows who this private key is attached to.
They don't know who you are.
Right.
So they're not completely anonymous because if one day somebody finds out who is behind the private
key then they will know exactly everything about how you've been acting so like your your private key
access like as a barrier is like a like Avatar or upside.
Sithen I'm inside an AM I guess for you and.
Yeah.
And so that's you know that's how they're meant to be that people are not supposed to find out who you
are basing your transactions are not supposed to be able to just monitor what you're doing and things
like that.
But if we think about it this way that every time you want somebody to send you money you have to give
them your address and every time you send someone money you your public key ends up getting attached
to that transaction.
And so somebody can just go through the whole LOCKNEY network and pick up every time you address a public
key pops up and they can like start observing things you know they won't know who exactly this addresses
belong to or who was active.
But they will see patterns they'll see that this address is Kip's receiving money from this address.
And you know the public key is being used to send money to these three or five addresses or song and
like they can create different patterns or see different parents of what's going on.
And they know and maybe at one point somebody might figure out that one of the addresses where you use
your public key to buy stuff is like a pizza shop near your city or in your city and they might be able
to track how often you go there and they might predict when you're going to be there and things like
that.
And there even though that sounds a little bit paranoid it's actually quite a big concern.
If a network promises that things like there's going to be privacy in the network then there has to
be privacy in the network.
Right.
Rather than these kind of patterns being able to people be able to establish that.
And so what is the solution.
Well up until some point in time people will do this.
I think if people really wanted privacy they would create multiple private keys and generate public
keys from each one and an address from each one and then you'd use a private or public key or an address
for certain things and then for other things you use different public your different dress or if you
are real privacy you just all the time you just generate a new public key and you address every single
time.
And you know thankfully there are no huge large numbers of there's almost unlimited like we can think
that there's a limited number of these public keys and addresses we can generate as many as you want
but it becomes very tedious keeping track of things and also maintaining these private keys safe and
secure.
And so like knowing where they are written down or things like that.
And so after a point in time Bitcoin introduced a improvement called bip 32 It's called the bill stands
for Bitcoin improvement proposal.
And in that proposal they propose exactly what we're talking about today hierarchically deterministic
wallet's.
So what is that.
Well with an HD wallet which you get is a monster private key.
That's your main thing that you get first and then from that Mussar private key then own the is a private
key generated from the master private and then the code is used to turn a public key and the public
key is used to generate the address.
So this part is kept secure so you can tell anybody your master private key or your private key.
Then what happens is and also same thing here address is something you can share freely publicly preferably
not to receive transactions like your public he'd better receive the money address.
As we discussed before but now if you want more privacy if you need more public keys and addresses all
that needs to happen is your mosque private key can generate more of them by simply you just like your
wallet.
What it will do for you is we'll add one to the project and then it'll generate a whole new set you
know because it's using a hash function again.
So here it's using the hash function.
So basically once you add plus one by a completely different number eventually and you get a new and
you set like that.
And so it can add Plus to add plus three and so on so you can generate as many private key public key
addresses you want as long as you just have access to this private key.
And this is all deterministic so you can just regenerate this at any point in time like there's no need
to remember all of these you just the wallahs will remember for you the you know the numbers that it
used and that's it.
And you will be able to get your private keys so all you need is the master prac.
So that's the structure.
And so how is this advantageous.
First of all it's very useful for wallet's they do this automatically when you need to receive money
or when you need to send money they put in different public keys and addresses all the time so and they
just generate new ones and like that way nobody can ever track what was going on where money's going
in where money is coming on.
Also this is an interesting idea for an organization.
So if an organization is going to use bitcoin for cryptocurrency for their services or products for
just running their business what they could do is they could have like the main like the director of
finance have the promiser private key and then each department have a separate private key.
And the beauty of that is that with the master private key you can always go into the block chain and
you can always find out everything that the organization has spent all of the transactions that came
from any of these private keys and you know like anything that happens like this that's what I call
a hierarchical inter-ministerial is this hierarchy so if you have the master program and you go into
the box and you can find all the transactions associated with any of these branches.
But if you only have the private key services let's say the division one division two divisions three
to four well Division One can only go on the block.
And they can only ever find their transaction because they can only generate their public key and their
address that's linked to them.
From that comes from their private key they can never see what division 2 has been doing through division.
So that's another great advantage of having this master private key so you have more oversight of the
organization.
That's where businesses.
And another thing that was suggested as well in the 32 is a master public key.
In fact this slide is libber wrong.
The Mussar public shouldn't necessarily be inside this.
In this in this square it should be outside.
So this square should finish here so it's not something you have to keep secure the muster public.
And so the Mussar public key what is that used for all the massive public you cannot generate.
You cannot get the private keys from the public but the master public key can recreate any of the public
keys here.
So you cannot.
So basically it's kind of like skipping the step you can already go through here.
And what would you use the master public.
Well you'd use the master public key in order to go and you'd give it to somebody like an auditor or
somebody who doesn't need to be able to send transactions remember you need the private key to send
money and the public key is used for verification and the address is used for receiving money.
So we definitely need the private key to send funds to somebody else and therefore an auditor or somebody
who is auditing a recession they don't need to be able to send money.
But at the same time they need access to the public he has to go through the blockade and understand
where where funds have been sent because we can see that through the public is and where funds have
been received we can see that through the press through the addresses which can be generated from the
public.
So a pretty interesting set up.
Very powerful.
So that wasn't what was proposed.
I'm going to at the end of this search are I'm going to link to her.
Interesting article by metallic Tharon kind of critiquing this set up because there was like a flaw
I'm not sure of the force still there but we'll get to the second.
Yeah.
And so this is this is the Arrakis this are hierarchically deterministic wallet's approach and that's
what you probably like you will often encounter in your if you're ever using bitcoin for your self you'll
encounter a deterministic world and you'll see that if you actually go through transactions you'll see
that they're using different addresses or different public keys are attached to the dresses and the
wallet does that for you all in the background you don't have to worry about.
But this is what happens as they say under the hood.
And so let's have a look at one more thing that I wanted to mention today is that this Mosser private
key.
How do you keep it safe.
So very often all you obviously like write it down or save it somewhere but very often the wallet provider
will prompt you to create.
And the money they will give you the money to remember is 12 words that you actually ask you to write
down with a pen on a paper and keep it somewhere safe like in a safe.
And because that mnemonic is what generates your most private key.
That's how you can recreate it.
And you know there's a reason to the mnemonic is because there's a certain number of words in English
language and when you take 12 of them then the possible number of possible combinations so large that
is again very unlikely that two people will have the same mnemonic and therefore the same Mussar protein.
But basically if you ever start a wallet and you see this that they ask you to come up with a mnemonic
that's the reason they're asking you to do this is because from that mnemonic if you write it on paper
and then if if like you lose your password or their servers get destroyed or something that you and
that Master private key is lost you can always take that mnemonic and using that same algorithm you
can generate your master private key and thrummed from me by surprise you can generate all the priorities
all the public keys all the addresses everything can be restored completely just from this one Humani.
So if you ever encounter that that's the reason why they're asking you to do this and it can be a good
idea but you have to keep the paper safe because you know everybody else who has that paper can also
just restore your master private key and take control.
So there you go.
That's a how age do you want it's work.
And if you'd like to learn more then check out the article by Retallack return.
It's called deterministic Wolitzer advantages and their understanding flows.
So it's a great description because some great knowledge is there about how to think about these while
it's this part about the understated.
That is him referring to that that's what is it called like a bug or a vulnerability where if you share
the public my master public key and the private keys the child private keys not the main not the massive
private key but the child properties if you share them at the same time.
So if somebody gets their hands on both at the same time for instance one of the leaders of the departments
has a child private key and also so has the private key one of those that you generate those action
ones the red ones that we saw and also get their hands on the one that the auditor gets.
Then they might be able to break the system and find out the mass of the private key.
But bear in mind this is an old article I'm not a developer and I don't know if that vulnerability has
been fixed so take it with a grain of salt but the rest of the information in the article is quite great.
If you want to understand as you will it's even better.
And on that note I hope you enjoyed today's story.
I look forward to seeing you back here next.
And until then enjoy bludgeons.